.TH NPMount 1
.SH NAME
.PP

npmount - Non-privileged mount tool

\" Convention:
\" Underline anything that is typed verbatim - commands, etc.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf 
.na 
npmount mount /mount/point
npmount umount /mount/point
.ad
.fi

\" Optional sections
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

.B NPmount
is a command-line tool to provide limited mount and unmount
capabilities to non-privileged users, such as mounting and unmounting
external media including optical discs and thumb drives.

NPMount can be used directly from the command-line or as a
platform-independent backend for GUI applications such as file managers.

It is more convenient than other methods because it is fully portable,
and never requires the user to enter a password.

.SH "CONFIGURATION"

The configuration file is simple.  It indicates which mount points
can be controlled by members of a given group.  The default configurtion
shown below indicates that members of the operator group can mount
and unmount directories under /media, which commonly contains mount points
for USB sticks and optical discs.

.nf
.na
# Group     Mount-points
operator    /media/*
.ad
.fi

Mounting also requires that the mount point be listed in /etc/fstab
or equivalent.  The Unix mount command is issued with a mount point alone.

Unmounting does not require a listing in /etc/fstab, since the Unix
umount command needs only a mount point or device.

Most mounts of external media are performed by an automount service,
anyway, so use of npmount to mount media should not often be necessary.

.SH "USAGE"

Using the configuration above as an example, members of the operator
group can run the following without authenticating:

.nf
.na
npmount umount /media/cd0
.ad
.fi

If /media/cd0 is configured in /etc/fstab or equivalent, then members
of the operator group can also run

.nf
.na
npmount mount /media/cd0
.ad
.fi

.SH FILES
.nf
.na
${PREFIX}/etc/npmount.conf
.ad
.fi

.SH "SEE ALSO"
mount(8), umount(8), setuid(2)

.SH BUGS
Please report bugs to the author and send patches in unified diff format.
(man diff for more information)

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
.na
J. Bacon
